# Supabase:

This project is configured to use Supabase for database management and authentication. Follow the steps below to set up and manage the project.

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed
- [Supabase CLI](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli) installed
- Supabase account and project created

## Setup Instructions

1. **Environment Variables**

   - Create a `.env.local` file in the root of your project and add the variables outlined in `.env.local.example`

2. **Connecting to the Hosted Database**

   - Login to Supabase CLI: `supabase login`
   - Link Your Project: `supabase link --project-ref your-project-ref`

3. **Adding and Running Migrations**

   - Create a New Migration: `supabase migration new migration_name`
   - Edit the Migration File:
     Open the newly created file in `supabase/migrations` and add your SQL statements.
   - Run the Migrations:
     `supabase db push`

4. **Resetting the Database**

   **Warning**: This will remove all data from your database.

   - Reset the Database
     Go to the Supabase dashboard > Project settings > Restart project
   - Run the Migrations:
     `supabase db push`

5. **Enabling Google and Apple Authentication**

   - Navigate to the Supabase Dashboard.
   - Go to Authentication > Providers.
   - Enable Google:
     Fill in the required fields with your Google OAuth credentials.
     Follow [this guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/social-login/auth-google) to access google credentials
   - Enable Apple:
     Fill in the required fields with your Apple OAuth credentials.
     Follow [this guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/social-login/auth-apple) to access apple credentials
   - Save the Changes.

## Resetting the Database

This section provides instructions for resetting your Supabase database, both locally and remotely.

#### Local Database

To reset your local Supabase database and start fresh:

1. **Reset the Database**: Use the Supabase CLI to reset the database. This will remove all existing data and schema.

   ```bash
   supabase db reset --force
   ```

2. **Push the New Initial Migration**: After resetting the database, push your new initial migration.

```bash
   supabase db migrate up
```

#### Remote Database

To reset your remote Supabase database and start fresh:

1. **Connect to the Remote Database and Drop All public Tables**:

```SQL
   Use the following SQL script to drop all tables and enums in the `public` schema. You can run this script using the SQL editor in the Supabase dashboard.

   -- Drop all tables in the public schema
   DO $$ DECLARE
   r RECORD;
   BEGIN
   FOR r IN (SELECT tablename FROM pg_tables WHERE schemaname = 'public') LOOP
   EXECUTE 'DROP TABLE IF EXISTS ' || quote_ident(r.tablename) || ' CASCADE';
   END LOOP;
   END $$;

   -- Drop all enums in the public schema
   DO $$ DECLARE
   r RECORD;
   BEGIN
   FOR r IN (SELECT n.nspname, t.typname FROM pg_catalog.pg_type t LEFT JOIN pg_catalog.pg_namespace n ON n.oid = t.typnamespace WHERE t.typtype = 'e' AND n.nspname = 'public') LOOP
   EXECUTE 'DROP TYPE IF EXISTS ' || quote_ident(r.nspname) || '.' || quote_ident(r.typname) || ' CASCADE';
   END LOOP;
   END $$;
```

2. **Push the New Initial Migration**: Once you have dropped all the existing tables and enums, push your new initial migration to the remote database using the Supabase CLI.

```bash
   supabase db push
```

By following these instructions, you can reset your Supabase database and apply new migrations, ensuring a fresh start both locally and remotely.

## Generate types

After adding a migration, types can be generated by the following commands from the root dir:

### Remote Database:

```bash
npm i supabase@">=1.8.1" --save-dev

npx supabase login

npx supabase init

supabase gen types typescript --project-id "$PROJECT_REF" --schema public > app/types/database.types.ts
```

### Local Database:

```bash
npx supabase gen types typescript --local > src/db/database.types.ts
```

# Next.js boilderplate:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.
